Equity refers to the idea of being fair or just.
Equity is not the same as ‘equality’. Equality is one
possible interpretation of equity, but there are also
other possible interpretations. For example, in many
countries in the world, it is considered equitable that
people with higher incomes and wealth pay higher
taxes than people with lower incomes and wealth.
Clearly, this notion of equity involves treating people
unequally. (This will be discussed in the Theory of
Knowledge feature on page 315.)
The idea of equity in economics often arises in
connection with the distribution of income (and
output), involving the for whom to produce question.
Equity, or fairness, in the distribution of income is often
interpreted as greater equality (or less inequality) in
the share of income received by individuals or families
in a society. The aim is not to make the distribution
of income completely equal, but to ensure that people
who would have little or no income in a market
economy, and cannot secure enough of essential goods
and services, such as food, shelter, health care, and so
on, will be able to survive. Therefore, equity is also an
important goal of government policies.
Where economists disagree
According to many economists, there is a trade-off
between effi ciency and equity (in the sense of a more
equal income distribution): more income equality
involves less effi ciency, and vice versa. The reason
they may confl ict is that government intervention in
markets to achieve equity (or anything else for that
matter) changes the allocation of resources. What
if these changes in resource allocation make the
economy less effi cient; what if they do not allow the
economy to answer the what to produce and how to
produce questions in the best possible way?
This idea emerged in the 1970s from a highly
infl uential book written by a famous economist,
Arthur Okun, who argued that ‘the confl ict between
equality and economic effi ciency is inescapable’
(Equity and Effi ciency: The Big Trade-off, 1975).
The following example helps explain the idea of a
confl ict between effi ciency and equity. Imagine a pie
representing society’s income, distributed between the
people in the economy according to how much they
contribute to baking it. Some people’s pieces are much
larger than others; it is believed that this is unfair, and
a decision is made to change how the pie is divided
up so that everyone receives a fair share. A ‘fair share’
is interpreted to mean an ‘equal share’, and the pie
is cut so everyone has equal size pieces. However, in
the following year, when the pie is baked again, the
overall size of the pie is smaller than the year before.
The shrinking of the pie means that due to income
redistribution, the amount of output produced (and
the income corresponding to this output) decreased.
The reason behind the decrease can be found in the
poorer allocation of resources, which did not allow the
economy to produce the greatest possible amount of
output with its resources.
Why did this happen? Arthur Okun argued that
government intervention to redistribute income
results in changes in work effort (people do not work
as hard), in changes in savings and investment (people
save and invest less) and in changes in attitudes (for
example, people have less of an incentive to train and
get new skills to become more productive). It follows,
then, that there is a confl ict between effi ciency and
equity (in the sense of income equality).
Other economists claim that there need not always
be a confl ict between equity and effi ciency. According
to one argument, government intervention to
change income distribution could result in changes
in behaviour that lead to greater rather than less
effi ciency. For example, suppose an economy has
income inequalities so great that very low income
people are too discouraged, or too unhealthy, or
too unskilled to be able to work. Some income
redistribution in their favour could increase their
ability to work and make them more productive, thus
increasing both income equality and effi ciency (the size of
the future pie). Therefore, in this view there need not be
an inevitable confl ict between effi ciency and equity,
and the two may be compatible.