Electrical signals such as voltages and currents are the most common.
Electronic devices called transistors predominate in the circuitry that implements these
signals. The signals in most present‐day electronic digital systems use just two discrete
values and are therefore said to be binary. A binary digit, called a bit, has two values: 0
and 1. Discrete elements of information are represented with groups of bits called binary
codes. For example, the decimal digits 0 through 9 are represented in a digital system
with a code of four bits (e.g., the number 7 is represented by 0111). How a pattern of
bits is interpreted as a number depends on the code system in which it resides. To make
this distinction, we could write (0111) 2 to indicate that the pattern 0111 is to be interpreted
in a binary system, and (0111) 10 to indicate that the reference system is decimal.
Then 0111 2 = 7 10 , which is not the same as 0111 10 , or one hundred eleven. The subscript
indicating the base for interpreting a pattern of bits will be used only when clarification
is needed. Through various techniques, groups of bits can be made to represent discrete
symbols, not necessarily numbers, which are then used to develop the system in a digital
format. Thus, a digital system is a system that manipulates discrete elements of information
represented internally in binary form. In today’s technology, binary systems are most
practical because, as we will see, they can be implemented with electronic components.
Discrete quantities of information either emerge from the nature of the data being
processed or may be quantized from a continuous process. On the one hand, a payroll
schedule is an inherently discrete process that contains employee names, social security
numbers, weekly salaries, income taxes, and so on. An employee’s paycheck is processed
by means of discrete data values such as letters of the alphabet (names), digits (salary),
and special symbols (such as $). On the other hand, a research scientist may observe a
continuous process, but record only specific quantities in tabular form. The scientist is
thus quantizing continuous data, making each number in his or her table a discrete
quantity. In many cases, the quantization of a process can be performed automatically
by an analog‐to‐digital converter, a device that forms a digital (discrete) representation
of a analog (continuous) quantity.
