SHIPPING
Our policy of shipping within 24-72 hours (during weekdays) only applies to UPS orders made prior to 2:30pm Eastern Standard Time. Delays may occur are if our warehouse is backlogged with orders and shipments during our busy season, or, if there are severe weather conditions that are out of our hands. These situations very rarely occur and The Treadmill Factory does everything in our power to ensure that customers receive their packages as quickly as possible.

Shipping to a Different Address

For orders over $400, we may allow shipping to a different address other than your billing address; However, you will be required to add the address on your credit card file (with your credit card company) as a secondary address in order for us to complete your order.

Carriers

The Treadmill Factory ships with UPS. Individual items that weight up to 150lbs will be shipped via UPS. The customer will have the option of picking which courier they prefer when they are placing an order. Once the customer reaches the shipping portion of our online ordering process, our system will list the different shipping options provided by UPS in order of shipping costs, from the least expensive option to the most expensive. Depending on your location, additional shipping options such as morning or evening deliveries may be available for additional costs. The system will also provide an ETA beside each shipping option. **Please note: the estimated time of arrival is just an estimate and does not guarantee that the package(s) will arrive exactly on that date.**

Oversized Items

All oversized items are shipped with a freight company as they are too heavy to ship with UPS. In these cases The Treadmill Factory usually ships with either Vitran or Fastfrate which are both trucking companies used for heavy items. Freight charges vary depending on the weight of the item(s) and the destination it is being shipped to.

Oversized items ship on a weekly basis so please allow 1-2 weeks for arrival. Drop ship items may take longer as they are shipped from a different warehouse. Please note, trucking companies will always call ahead of time to schedule a delivery date with you. All deliveries are curbside only.

Tracking

For tracking on UPS shipments, please log in to your account, located at the top right hand corner of our homepage banner. Please make sure to track your order to avoid any problems or delays as UPS will make one delivery attempt after which it is taken to the nearest depot. You may then do one of two things; call and schedule a second delivery attempt OR pick it up from the nearest depot. If the carrier does not hear from the customer after a week, they will return the package. Should a package be returned to our warehouse, it will be the customers responsibility to pay for shipping a second time in order for us to re-ship the product(s).

Remote Areas

Remote areas are defined as being outside of the standard service routes of our carriers. Orders being sent to remote Canadian locations are subject to an additional shipping charge, which varies depending on size and weight of the product(s) being shipped. Please note that if you are making an online order from a remote area the shipping cost you see may not always be accurate. In those situations, The Treadmill Factory will obtain the exact shipping costs associated to that particular order and contact the customer before proceeding with the order so the customer can be aware of any additional shipping costs prior to the order being shipped.

Free Shipping

Items marked free shipping have a certain percentage allocated towards shipping costs. This percentage typically covers all major cities across Canada. If shipping costs more than we have allocated for a certain product, then your shipping cost will be the difference. Also note that in the event that you are in a remote or beyond carrier location, additional charges may apply.

Multi-Box Shipments

In certain cases the warehouse is able to package certain items together. For example, should you receive 4 boxes when you have ordered 7 items, it does not necessarily mean that any items are missing. It simply means the warehouse was able to package all 7 items into 4 boxes. Please always open your packages before calling or emailing about a missing product(s) to make sure nothing is actually missing.

Damaged Items Due to Shipping

REFUSE SHIPMENT! If an item arrives and the package is visibly damaged, please refuse the item, take a photo if possible and make a note with the carrier. Please call 416.900.7988 or toll free 1.888.900.9095.

Restrictions

The Treadmill Factory does not ship to PO boxes as the shipping companies we work with do not deliver any packages unless they are being shipped to a physical address. If your billing information is tied to a PO Box, please provide your physical address in the billing section when placing the order. Please also make sure that your physical address is on your file with your credit card company so that should we need to verify, the information will match and we can proceed with the shipping.

RETURNS & REFUNDS
Purchases made online may be returned for a full refund (less shipping and handling) within 7 days of receiving the item(s). PLEASE NOTE: All merchandise for return must be in new condition, sealed in its original packaging. In order to maintain our everyday low prices, The Treadmill Factory does not accept returns on items that are not sealed in their original packaging as we cannot simply send them back to the manufacturer for credit.

In order to return a product, you must obtain a return authorization number. To do so, please email sarin.m@treadmillfactory.ca with the following information:

Subject line: Return Authorization Number
Body of e-mail: Please include your full name, order number and reason for return request.
Shipping costs associated to the return are the customer's responsibility. However, in the event that we have shipped an incorrect item, The Treadmill Factory will be responsible to cover shipping and handling costs.

Please note: by simply sending an item back, we do not guarantee a refund or replacement. Free shipping promotions will still be subject to shipping and handling fees in the event of a return. Refunds may take up to 14 days.

Final Sale Items

Certain items, such as electronics, heart rate monitors, mouth guards, undergarments, clothing, CDs, DVDs, etc. are FINAL SALE.

CANCEL AN ORDER
As long as your order is pending, you may call 1.888.900.9095 to cancel the order. You must speak directly to a Treadmill Factory representative to cancel an order. A cancellation may not be done through e-mail or voicemail. Once an order has been processed, our standard return and refund policy applies.

BACKORDERED ITEMS
If you choose to add a backordered item to your order, the Treadmill Factory will determine how to proceed with that particular order depending on the size and weight of the backordered item(s):

In most cases, the full amount of the order will be charged and all of the items, minus the backordered item will be shipped out according to our regular schedule. Through email, we will provide you with an ETA for the backordered item and ship that item out once it becomes available at the later date. There will be no additional shipping costs.
If the backordered item is a large or heavy item, and affects the shipping cost dramatically, The Treadmill Factory will wait until the backordered product is back in stock. At that point, we will proceed to charge and ship the full order.
The Treadmill Factory diligently tries to avoid any and all backorders and we update our website daily to keep our customers informed of any products that are currently unavailable. There may, however, be the rare occasion that an item listed as "in stock" is incredibly popular and therefore sells out fast. In this case, any customer who purchases an item online that has recently gone out of stock will receive a timely email notification providing the customer with these options:

Proceed with one of the two options above
Remove the backordered item and proceed with the rest of the order (We will automatically adjust the pricing and shipping to reflect the changes made to the order).
Leave the order pending until all items are in stock, at which point we will contact you to see if you would still like to proceed with the order.
Cancel the order.
We will try our best to provide an ETA on backordered items but unfortunately it is not always possible to provide an exact date for the arrival of the out of stock item(s).

WARRANTY PARTS & DEFECTIVE ITEMS
If a shipped item arrives and it appears to be damaged, please fill out the online claim form at OrderSupport.ca.

If an item is defective, DO NOT simply send it back to us. Send pictures to service@treadmillfactory.ca and The Treadmill Factory will be responsible to assess and evaluate the situation to make sure that the item is defective and not improperly assembled or misused.

The Treadmill Factory reserves the right to (i) send parts and (ii) replace a defective part.

Parts from Canada: Replacement parts are available to be picked up in Markham, ON. It is the end users responsibility to arrange delivery or pick up of warranty or faulty parts or products.

Parts from the U.S.: Parts that are shipped from the U.S are shipped directly to the customer. Customers are responsible for the cost of duty, broker or shipping charges associated.

PRICING
Prices listed on the website are subject to change without notice as they are live quotes and fluctuate. We cannot guarantee a price you have seen at a later date.

LIABILITY
The Treadmill Factory reserves the right to cancel any order and for any occurrence. Under these circumstances, the customer will be immediately notified of such occurrences. The Treadmill Factory or it's parent company are not liable or responsible for any damages caused by the equipment or misuse.

Please enjoy your chosen activity responsibly, and seek consultation from a general health practitioner to determine your level of fitness. Get the proper training, make sure you are in good physical condition and are correctly equipped. Some or all of the activities for which we sell equipment, apparel and footwear can pose a significant risk to your well being. The Treadmill Factory does not assume any responsibility for actions resulting from or associated in any way with purchases of any products on our site. By using our site, and through your purchase, you acknowledge and attest that you understand these risks, and that you take full responsibility for your own actions.

USE OF THE SITE
Welcome to the TreadmillFactory.ca website (the "Site"). The Treadmill Factory provides services to you subject to the notices, terms, and conditions set forth in this agreement (the "Agreement"). In addition, when you use any of our services (e.g., Customer Reviews), you will be subject to the rules, guidelines, policies, terms, and conditions applicable to such service, and they are incorporated into this Agreement by this reference. We reserve the right to change this Site and these terms and conditions at any time. ACCESSING, BROWSING OR OTHERWISE USING THE SITE INDICATES YOUR AGREEMENT TO ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN THIS AGREEMENT, SO PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE PROCEEDING.

Use of Site

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, we hereby grant you a limited, revocable, non-transferable and non-exclusive license to access and use the Site by displaying it on your internet browser only for the purpose of shopping for personal items sold on the Site and not for any commercial use or use on behalf of any third party, except as explicitly permitted by us in advance. Any breach of this Agreement shall result in the immediate revocation of the license granted in this paragraph without notice to you.

Except as permitted in the paragraph above, you may not reproduce, distribute, display, sell, lease, transmit, create derivative works from, translate, modify, reverse-engineer, disassemble, decompile or otherwise exploit this Site or any portion of it unless expressly permitted by us in writing. You may not make any commercial use of any of the information provided on the Site or make any use of the Site for the benefit of another business unless explicitly permitted by us in advance. We reserve the right to refuse service, terminate accounts, and/or cancel orders at its discretion, including, without limitation, if we believe that customer conduct violates applicable law or is harmful to our interests.

You shall not upload to, distribute, or otherwise publish through this Site any Content, information, or other material that (a) violates or infringes the copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights of any person; (b) is libelous, threatening, defamatory, obscene, indecent, pornographic, or could give rise to any civil or criminal liability under Canadian or international law; or (c) includes any bugs, viruses, worms, trap doors, Trojan horses or other harmful code or properties.

Content provided on this site is solely for informational purposes. It is your sole responsibility to consult a licensed physician or qualified health care professional for advice, diagnosis, and/or treatment of any health related condition. Submissions or opinions expressed on this Site are that of the individual expressing such Submission or opinion and may not reflect our opinions. Product representations expressed on this Site are that of the vendor and are not made by us.

We may assign you a password and account identification to enable you to access and use certain portions of this Site. Each time you use a password or identification, you will be deemed to be authorized to access and use the Site in a manner consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and we have no obligation to investigate the authorization or source of any such access or use of the Site. YOU WILL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL ACCESS TO AND USE OF THIS SITE BY ANYONE USING THE PASSWORD AND IDENTIFICATION ORIGINALLY ASSIGNED TO YOU WHETHER OR NOT SUCH ACCESS TO AND USE OF THIS SITE IS ACTUALLY AUTHORIZED BY YOU, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ALL COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSMISSIONS AND ALL OBLIGATIONS (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS) INCURRED THROUGH SUCH ACCESS OR USE. You are solely responsible for protecting the security and confidentiality of the password and identification assigned to you. You shall immediately notify us of any unauthorized use of your password or identification or any other breach or threatened breach of this Site's security.

Reviews and Questions

Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Agreement or on the Site, anything that you submit or post to the Site and/or provide us, including without limitation, ideas, know-how, techniques, questions, reviews, comments, and suggestions (collectively, "Submissions") is and will be treated as nonconfidential and nonproprietary, and we shall have the royalty-free, worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable and transferable right to use, copy, distribute, display, publish, perform, sell, lease, transmit, adapt, create derivative works from such Submissions by any means and in any form, and to translate, modify, reverse-engineer, disassemble, or decompile such Submissions. All Submissions shall automatically become our sole and exclusive property and shall not be returned to you.

In addition to the rights applicable to any Submission, when you post questions or reviews to the Site, you also grant us the right to use the name that you submit with any review, comment, or other Content, if any, in connection with such review, comment, or other content. You represent and warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the reviews, comments and other Content that you post on this Site and that use of your reviews, comments, or other Content by us will not infringe upon or violate the rights of any third party. You shall not use a false e mail address, pretend to be someone other than yourself or otherwise mislead us or third parties as to the origin of any Submissions or Content. We may, but shall not be obligated to, remove or edit any Submissions (including comments or reviews) for any reason.

Intellectual Property

All text, graphics, button icons, images, audio clips, and software (collectively, "Content"), belongs exclusively to The Treadmill Factory, or its affiliates. The collection, arrangement, and assembly of all Content on this Site (the "Compilation") belongs exclusively to The Treadmill Factory or its affiliates. All software used on this Site (the "Software") is the property of The Treadmill Factory, its affiliates or its Software suppliers. The Content, the Compilation and the Software are all protected by Canadian and international copyright laws. TreadmillFactory.ca, The Treadmill Factory, and other logos, slogans, trade names or words are registered trademarks, trademarks or service marks of The Treadmill Factory, its affiliates, suppliers, or third parties. The use of any of our trademarks or service marks without our express written consent is strictly prohibited. You may not use our trademarks or service marks in connection with any product or service in any way that is likely to cause confusion. You may not use our trademarks or service marks in any manner that disparages or discredits us. You may not use any of our trademarks or service marks in meta tags without prior explicit consent.

Privacy Policy

Please review our Privacy Policy, which also governs your visit to this Site, to understand our practices.

International Access

This Site may be accessed from countries other than Canada. This Site may contain products or references to products that are not available outside of Canada. Any such references do not imply that such products will be made available outside Canada. If you access and use this Site outside Canada you are responsible for complying with your local laws and regulations.

Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THE STANDARD TERMS OF SALE THAT GOVERN THE SALE OF EACH PRODUCT ON THIS SITE, THIS SITE, THE PRODUCTS OFFERED FOR SALE ON IT AND THE TRANSACTIONS CONDUCTED THROUGH IT ARE PROVIDED BY US ON AN "AS IS" BASIS. WE MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE OPERATION OF THE SITE OR THE INFORMATION, CONTENT, MATERIALS, OR PRODUCTS INCLUDED ON THIS SITE. THIS SITE MAY INCLUDE INACCURACIES, MISTAKES OR TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS. WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE CONTENT WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE.

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, WE WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND ARISING FROM THE USE OF THIS SITE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, OUR TOTAL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES (REGARDLESS OF THE FOUNDATION FOR THE ACTION) SHALL NOT EXCEED IN THE AGGREGATE THE AMOUNT OF FEES ACTUALLY PAID BY YOU TO US DURING THE MONTH IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE ACT ALLEGEDLY GIVING RISE TO OUR LIABILITY.

Typographical Errors

In the event a product is listed at an incorrect price or with incorrect information due to typographical error or error in pricing or product information received from our suppliers, we shall have the right to refuse or cancel any orders placed for product listed at the incorrect price. We shall have the right to refuse or cancel any such orders whether or not the order has been confirmed and your credit card charged. If your credit card has already been charged for the purchase and your order is cancelled, we shall immediately issue a credit to your credit card account in the amount of the charge.

Links

This site may contain links to other sites on the Internet that are owned and operated by third parties. You acknowledge that we are not responsible for the operation of or content located on or through any such site.

Copyright Complaints

We respect the intellectual property of others. If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please email us at info@treadmillfactory.ca