Interpay Ltd trading as Visa First (herein after called Visa First) acts as an agent on behalf of their clients in the submission of applications for visa and ancillary services to the appropriate institutions and/or immigration authorities.
By making payment for our service, you agree to abide by terms and conditions as set out here. Visa First reserves the right not to provide any service without the client agreeing to our terms and conditions as set out here.
Any visas arranged under the name Migration Abroad are covered by the same terms and conditions of Visa First as set out here.
These Terms & Conditions govern the provision of all services provided by Visa First in the processing of visa applications and other ancillary services for their clients. All orders made by Visa First clients are subject to the terms and conditions set out herein.
Visa First aims to process the visa application in the timelines committed to in its promotional materials. Visa First will use its best endeavors to minimise any delay or inconvenience caused in this respect. However, Visa First does not guarantee time guidelines for any visa application. Visa First will not be held responsible should the immigration authorities or any other third party change their rules, regulations or processing requirements if that change has a direct effect on the timeline for delivery.
Visa processing times shown on promotional materials are standard/average processing times. Any processing times advised by Visa First through its agents or materials should be used as a guide only.
Visa First will not be held responsible for costs incurred due to a delay in the visa process due to circumstances outside of our control.
Visa First bears no responsibility for costs incurred by an applicant or any secondary applicants while waiting for a visa to be finalised by the immigration authorities. These costs may include but are not limited to cost of flights, rent of accommodation, loss of earnings or any other costs. Visa First is not liable for any costs arising from any action or inaction of any immigration authority, embassy or government body associated with the visa process or indeed for the non-provision of service from any third party associated with the visa process or visa delivery; which may result in a visa application or any part in the visa application process being delayed or refused as a result.
For short stay business and tourist visas, Visa First may apply for a Double or Multiple entry visa on the clients behalf, yet the embassy may decide to grant a Single entry visa. The decision to grant a Single entry visa remains solely with the embassy and Visa First do not have control over this. In this situation, Visa First will discount your next visa application with us by the difference in the embassy visa fee.
For any visa, in particular a tourist or business visa, the client should not book a flight ticket unless the embassy has specifically requested evidence of this as a requirement for the visa application.
An embassy may decide to review an application in the destination country rather than at the local embassy. This decision is at the discretion of the embassy and it is not something that would be known in advance by Visa First. It may take longer than the standard processing time for such applications to be processed and this is outside the control of Visa First. Visa First reminds you not to book flights until your visa is granted.
Visa First advises its clients not to make any travel or hotel bookings, sell any property, or give notice of intent to leave any job until you have your visa. Should you decide to disregard this advice, Visa First will not be liable for any associated costs of such action(s).
Visa First will always lodge a visa application in the applicants’ best interest. We are a private company and we do not have authority to grant a visa of any kind. We cannot guarantee a positive result on a visa application or any assessment or review in arriving at the final result, which is part of the visa process. The final decision on all applications rests with the relevant organization responsible for issuing that result.
Visa First cannot influence: any decision made by an immigration authority; any requests for additional information before finalising a visa; any delay by an immigration authority in the issuing of a visa; or a decision to refuse to grant a visa.
The immigration authority/officer has the sole decision on the term of a visa that they grant. This term may be less than the term expected or requested by the client. Similarly, the immigration authority / officer has the sole decision on the activation date that they place on a granted visa. This date may be prior to the date expected or requested by the client. Visa First is not responsible for the term of any visa issued or the activation date placed on a visa by an immigration authority even. Visa First has no authority or control to change this term/date.
Visa First advises its clients on visa options and applies for visa applications on their behalf in good faith based on immigration information made available directly by immigration and embassy departments at the time of lodgement. In the event where immigration laws and/or regulations have been updated by an immigration department but such updates have not made known to the public at the time of visa lodgement such conflicting information is outside the control of Visa First. Visa First will not be liable for any visa application being refused or any additional costs arising from such a refusal (including travel costs) should situations of outdated information arise.
Similarly, in the event where immigration advice provided by one immigration officer / consular official conflicts with that of an visa issuing immigration officer at the port of entry, such conflicting information is outside the control of Visa First. Visa First will not be liable for any visa application being refused or any additional costs arising from such a refusal (including travel costs) should situations of conflicting information between immigration officers arise.
Visa First will use and rely on information provided by the client in the provision of services to that client. Visa First will not independently verify or assume responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of such information.
It is the client's responsibility to provide Visa First with all required information and documentation concerning an application. This may include but is not limited to documentation from third parties such as partners, family, employers, sponsors, assessment bodies, educational bodies, etc. If the required documentation does not meet with the requirements of Visa First, Visa First retain the right not to lodge that visa application until it has received all of the required information in order to do so.
Visa First reserves the right to contact your sponsoring employer should further details be required from the authorities or for confirmation of your application.
If an immigration authority has incorporated a deadline for the submission of documents to an application, these documents must be provided at the earliest possible time but no later than 48 hours prior to the deadline date.
Visa First cannot lodge a visa application until it has complete documentation as outlined in the registration pack and any subsequent documentation requested by Visa First from the main applicant.
Visa First cannot be held responsible for any expense and/or delay arising from incomplete application forms, inaccurate/false or incomplete information provided or inaccurate/false or incomplete supporting documentation.
Visa First are not responsible for applications that have become ineligible as a result of changes in Immigration policy at any stage of the immigration process. Any application that is not lodged to the Immigration Authorities may also be affected by changes in Immigration policy.
Certain documentation required for a visa application may be valid for a certain period of time and become invalid thereafter (for example medicals, skills assessment results, police clearance reports). It is the client’s responsibility to ensure that the documentation provided to Visa First at the time of submitting a visa application are valid and within date.
Visa First will provide the relevant medical forms to a client, should health examinations be required. Visa First will also provide the client with a list of authorized doctors that are eligible to carry out these medicals. However Visa First have no part in the process of carrying out these medicals or providing these medical results to the Immigration Authorities for further processing.
Visa First advises applicants not to complete any health examinations (such as Chest X-ray, Medicals, Blood tests, etc) until advised to do so by Visa First. Visa First do not cover the medical costs involved in this process.
The results of health examinations are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. If the medical results provided to the Immigration Authorities have expired by the time an immigration officer reviews these results for the visa application, the client is responsible for providing up-to-date medicals and paying any associated costs.
The results of character checks / police clearances are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. If the character checks / police clearances provided to the Immigration Authorities have expired by the time an immigration officer reviews these for the visa application, the client is responsible for providing up-to-date character checks / police clearances and paying any associated costs.
The results for assessments and visa applications are valid for a limited period of time. The client is responsible for ensuring that the result for an assessment or visa application is provided to Visa First, not less than 30 days prior to the date of expiry of that result.
Australian and New Zealand Working Holiday Visa applications may be finalized within 48 hours of lodgement. In some instances, applications may be referred to an Australian Immigration Office or the New Zealand Immigration Office for further processing. Referred applications may take up to 6 weeks to finalize once all outstanding information is received.
Should you choose to purchase any of the services offered by Visa First, either electronically or via the telephone; and wish to settle payment for that service by either cash, bank draft, postal order, cheque, credit card, debit card or bank transfer; you acknowledge that you agree to the Visa First terms of service. You acknowledge that you are responsible for any additional fees that may be required to facilitate the visa application or ancillary service including but not limited to fees in connection with medical reports, Chest X-rays, court documents, couriers, translation services, certification of documents, police checks or passport renewals.
Visa First will not provide any service (including the lodgement of a visa application) until payment has been made to Visa First in full for that service. Visa First is not responsible for any repercussions of not providing the service in question.
Our prices may need to be changed without prior notice as our prices are governed by exchange rates and changes in immigration costs.
As soon as the initial payment is received, the client is deemed to have engaged the service of Visa First. Our service is our professional advice and expertise. Once the service has been engaged it cannot be returned, whether or not the client has changed his mind or no longer wishes to utilise it. If a client submits a refund request within 30 minutes of payment, they may be entitled to a partial refund, if the service has not been provided to them and/or work has not commenced on their file.
Visa First registration pack payments are non refundable.
No refund is forthcoming of any fees paid to Visa First where the visa application has been lodged to the Immigration Authorities regardless of the reason for withdrawal.
If a client pays Visa First to assess documentation / Pre-Check for a visa application or for any part of that application, this assessment will involve a review of documentation provided to prepare an application for lodging to the relevant organization. Document assessments / Pre-Check are non-refundable should the client decide for whatever reason not to proceed with the application once Visa First has begun to assess the clients documentation.
If a client pays Visa First to assess documents/ prepare a visa application or any other service for lodgement and change their mind, the fee is non-refundable. In some cases, a credit for the balance of the fee paid (after an assessment of costs for work carried out to date) may be put towards a future visa application for the client.
If an application has become ineligible due to Immigration policy changes that have been introduced between when the application was accepted by Visa First but before the application is lodged to the Immigration Authorities, no refund is forthcoming for the assessment of the client’s documentation where Visa First has provided this service.
If, after registering for the visa application with Visa First you wish to withdraw the visa application and that application has not been submitted to the Immigration Authorities, assessment and/or administration fees apply.
Please note that immigration fees may be partially refunded in cases where the visa application has not yet been submitted to the Immigration Authorities. This is at the discretion of Visa First.
Fees paid to Visa First are non-refundable should you withdraw a visa application that you have kept on hold for a period longer than 6 months, even if that application might have never been submitted to the Immigration Authorities.
Additional cancellation fees apply in cases where you wish to cancel a visa that has been approved.
Visa First reserves the right, at our discretion, to change our product providers or any other parties involved in providing any of our ancillary services/products (SIM Cards, Taxsaver packs, Work Courses, KICK Start Packs, bank accounts etc.) as deemed appropriate by Visa First.
You agree for Visa First to keep clients updated by phone and e-mail about recent updates and changes set by the relevant assessing bodies, immigration authorities, embassies and consulates; as well as new products/services and updates to products/services that Visa First offers in cases where the information is relevant to the products that the client has initially purchased, enquired about or registered for with VisaFirst.com. 
You can opt out of receiving any further correspondence by e-mailing newsletter_unsubscribe@visafirst.com or calling Visa First anytime and request to be removed from our mailing list.
You must travel with the same passport you hold at time of completing your application. If you obtain a new passport after your visa has been issued, you need to contact Visa First help desk to have your visa re-allocated to your new passport. In this case, re-allocation fees apply.
Additional charges of 2.5% apply in cases where applicants choose "credit card", "laser card" or "debit card" type of payment for the services they wish to apply for subject to a minimum of €5/£3.
Visa First operates a strict no refund policy for all ancillary services/ products.
In the event of loss or damage to any passport or documents received, Visa First liability will be limited to the actual value of the passport and documents up to a maximum of €50 / £50 per paid application. Visa First accepts no liability for consequential loss.
Visa First reserves the right to return any passport without the requested visa if the passport or the documents provided do not comply with the immigration requirements or if there is insufficient time to process the visa.
Any visa application request submitted to Visa First by a partner or agent on behalf of their client (traveller) will be deemed to be an application submitted to Visa First by the partner’s / agent’s client (traveller) directly to Visa First. All terms and conditions listed herein apply to both the partner / agent and the partner’s / agent’s client (traveller) equally
If Visa First acts as an agent or introduces/refers the customer to ancillary or related products of other businesses, then the customer is bound by the specific Terms and Conditions of that business which may be different to the Terms and Conditions of Visa First.
Where a visa pack or an ancillary pack is sold to a client via an agent, the agent is responsible for taking the initial information and payment. Information received by Visa First from the agent is understood to be true and complete. Should the client provide conflicting information at a later date to a Visa First case officer, Visa First will not be responsible for the result of the application. The client will be liable for additional fees to Visa First where the service needs to be provided again in whole or part.
Visa First does not carry any liability to the client once the contracted service is completed with the client. This limitation on duty of care and / or liability includes but is not limited to information; advice or opinion provided by Visa First to the client after the contracted service is complete.
This limitation on duty of care and / or liability also includes but is not limited to any accident, injury or loss suffered by the client or any third party as a result of a service or product provided by Visa First to that client.
Visa First is entitled to include additional Terms & Conditions should the need arise. The submission of an application to Visa First by web, post, fax, email, constitutes agreement to these Terms & Conditions, including amendments thereto, by the customer.
Visa First is entitled to include additional Terms & Conditions should the need arise. The submission of an application to Visa First by web, post, fax, email, constitutes agreement to these Terms & Conditions, including amendments thereto, by the customer.
The provision of visa services from Visa First to a client ends as soon as a decision is reached by an authorized immigration officer on a visa application. No further work or services will be provided or included from Visa First to the client as part of the visa service provision unless already included in the original contract. Visa First may from time to time provide information or an opinion to the client outside of the provision of immigration visas services. This information may include but is not limited to information relating to travel and visa entry dates, travel options, relocation, employment, accommodation, geography, and general information about life in another country. None of this information or opinion shall be considered to be part of the service. Visa First will not be held responsible for any inaccuracies or unsuitability of such information. It is the client’s own responsibility to review and confirm for himself the accuracy and suitability of any such information.
Correspondence between Immigration and Visa First with regards to any visa application is strictly confidential and is not subject to further distribution to third parties (including main applicants).
It is the client’s own responsibility to ensure that he familiarizes himself with his visa activation date and that the client enters the country to activate his visa before the visa activation date passes. The client’s visa is liable to be cancelled once the visa expiration date passes if the client has not entered before this date. The client bear’s all responsibility and liability in such situations.
It is the client’s own responsibility to ensure that he familiarizes himself with his visa activation date and that the client enters the country to activate his visa before the visa activation date passes. The client’s visa is liable to be cancelled once the visa expiration date passes if the client has not entered before this date. The client bear’s all responsibility and liability in such situations.
Visa First bears no responsibility or liability for you breaking any existing visa terms and conditions (including overstaying) that you hold or previously held which results in you subsequently becoming illegal in another country. It is your responsibility to ensure that you remain legal at all times while you are in another country.
Visa First will not be held responsible for any loss or damage caused by an embassy/consulate issuing an incorrect visa or incorrect details on a visa as this is out of our control.
Visa First shall not be held responsible under any circumstance to compensate you for any loss, damage or delay of passports or travel documents by any third party courier/delivery company.
In the event that you want to apply for another visa for a country that you are currently in and the Immigration Authorities require you to be outside of the country at the time of lodgement you need to contact us as soon as you leave the country. Please note that we will process your required visa only once we receive your written confirmation that you are outside of the country. Failure to do so and should you re-enter that country without our team providing you with your visa grant letter/number, may result in additional travel expense which will be your responsibility to cover and not the responsibility of Visa First.
Passport cover covers the replacement cost of the passport and where possible the provision of passport replacement documents. Re-imbursement is limited to the fee that the embassy charges for the replacement of the passport to a maximum as set out above. Please note, that the passport cover service is valid only for the duration of the visa.
It is the client's responsibility to make sure he reads the Visa Grant Notification letter. It is very important that he understands and abides by the visa conditions. If he fails to abide by these conditions, the visa may be cancelled and he may be required to leave that country. 
Visa First will not be held responsible for costs incurred as a result of the client not abiding by these conditions.
Visa First cannot be held responsible for incorrect details on a visa as it is the client's responsibility to check the received Visa Grant Notification letter and make sure that the passport details on the visa letter appear exactly as they appear on the passport. Please note that failure to do so may result in significant delays/missed flights/additional travel expenses/not being allowed to enter the relevant country.
Visa First should not be held responsible for costs incurred as a result of not following the above obligation.
As our client it is your responsibility to declare any facts which may adversely affect your case via an email prior to engaging our services. This may include but is not limited to serious medical conditions and serious criminal convictions. Non-disclosure of such pertinent facts may result in the visa application being delayed or refused.
Tax File Number (TFN) applications are processed by the Australian Tax Office (ATO). The ATO is solely responsible for the timely processing of TFN applications and the ATO has total discretion whether to grant or deny an Australian TFN. Visa First bares no responsibility for any delays caused by the ATO in the processing of Australian TFN applications. Visa First bears no responsibility for any decisions made by the ATO whether to approve or deny TFN applications.
Bank account applications are processed within 5 working days once all details are confirmed and sent to our provider.
The information on this web site is current at time of publication and may be subject to change.
A visa may be cancelled at any point in time after the visa grant letter is issued if it is discovered that the information provided to Visa First and in turn to the immigration authorities for the purposes of the visa application is deemed to be false and / or misleading information. In the event of a visa being cancelled on such grounds, Visa First will bear no responsibility for any costs, grievances, liabilities or any other outcomes suffered by the clients that results from the cancellation of a visa application arranged through Visa First.