Property Taxes: Landlord shall pay, before delinquency, all general real estate taxes and payments of special assessments coming due during the Lease term on the Leased Premises, and all personal property taxes with respect to Landlord's private property, if any, on the Leased Premises. Tenant shall be responsible for paying all personal property taxes with respect to Tenant's personal property at the Leased Premises.
Insurance: If the Leased Premises or any other part of the Building is spoiled by fire or other sufferer resulting from any act of inattention by Tenant or by any of Tenant's agents, employees or invitees, rent shall not be diminished or abated while such damages are under repair, and Tenant shall be accountable for the costs of mend not covered by insurance. Landlord shall maintain fire and comprehensive coverage insurance on the Building and the Leased Premises in such amount as Landlord shall think suitable. Tenant shall be accountable, at its expenditure, for fire and extended coverage insurance on all of its personal property, including removable trade fixtures, located in the Leased Premises. Tenant and Landlord shall, each at its own expense, maintain a policy or policies of inclusive general liability insurance with respect to the particular activities of each in the Building with the premiums thereon fully paid on or before due date. Such insurance policy shall be issued by and binding upon an insurance company approved by Landlord, and shall afford minimum protection of not less than $1,000,000 combined single limit coverage of bodily injury, property damage or combination thereof. Tenant shall provide Landlord with current Certificates of Insurance evidencing Tenant's compliance with this Paragraph.
Utilities: Tenant shall pay all accuses for water, sewer, gas, electricity, telephone and other services and utilities used by Tenant on the Leased Premises during the term of this Lease unless otherwise specifically agreed in writing by Landlord. In the event that any utility or service given to the Leased Premises is not unconnectedly metered, Landlord shall pay the amount due and separately invoice Tenant for Tenant's pro rata share of the charges. Tenant shall pay such all utility charges prior to the due date. Tenant acknowledges that the Leased Premises are designed to provide standard office use electrical facilities and standard office lighting. Tenant shall not use any equipment or devices that utilizes excessive electrical energy or which may, in Landlord's reasonable opinion, over load the wiring or interfere with electrical services to other tenants.
Signs: Following Landlord's permission, Tenant shall have the right to place on the Leased Premises, at locations chosen by Tenant, any signs which are allowed by appropriate zoning ordinances and private limitations. Landlord may refuse consent to any proposed signage that is in Landlord's opinion too large, deceptive, unappealing or otherwise conflicting with or unsuitable to the Leased Premises or use of any other tenant. Landlord shall aid and cooperate with Tenant in obtaining any essential permission from governmental authorities or adjoining owners and occupants for Tenant to place or construct the foregoing signs. Tenant shall repair all damage to the Leased Premises resulting from the removal of signs installed by Tenant.
Damage and Destruction: If the Leased Premises or any part thereof or any appurtenance thereto is so damaged by fire, casualty or structural defects, such damage or defects not being the result of any act of negligence by Tenant or by any of Tenant's agents, employees or invitees, that the same cannot be used for Tenant's purposes, then Tenant shall have the right within ninety (90) days following damage to elect by notice to Landlord to terminate this Lease as of the date of such damage. In the event of minor damage to any part of the Leased Premises, and if such damage does not render the Leased Premises unusable for Tenant's purposes, Landlord shall promptly repair such damage at the cost of the Landlord. In making the repairs called for in this paragraph, Landlord shall not be liable for any delays resulting from strikes, governmental restrictions, inability to obtain necessary materials or labor or other matters which are beyond the reasonable control of Landlord. Tenant shall be relieved from paying rent and other charges during any portion of the Lease term that the Leased Premises are inoperable or unfit for occupancy, or use, in whole or in part, for Tenant's purposes. Rentals and other charges paid in advance for any such periods shall be credited on the next ensuing payments, if any, but if no further payments are to be made, any such advance payments shall be refunded to Tenant. The provisions of this paragraph extend not only to the matters aforesaid, but also to any occurrence which is beyond Tenant's reasonable control and which renders the Leased Premises, or any appurtenance thereto, inoperable or unfit for occupancy or use, in whole or in part, for Tenant's purposes.
Default: In the event of a default made by Tenant in the imbursement of rent when due to Landlord, Tenant shall have fifteen (15) days after receipt of written notice thereof to cure such default. In the event of a default made by Tenant in any of the other agreements or conditions to be kept, observed and performed by Tenant, Tenant shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice thereof to cure such default