1. Introduction

Applicable Terms. Thanks for using Google Play. Google Play is a service provided by Google Inc. (“Google”, “we” or “us”), located at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View California 94043, USA, and is subject to the Google Terms of Service ("Google ToS"). Google Play is a “Service” as defined in the Google ToS, and these Google Play Terms of Service are additional terms which apply to the use of Google Play. Your use of Google Play and the apps (including Android Instant Apps), games, music, movies, books, magazines, or other digital content or services (referred to as "Content") available through it is subject to these Google Play Terms of Service and the Google ToS (which together we refer to as the “Terms”).

If there is any conflict between the Google Play Terms of Service and the Google ToS, the Google Play Terms of Service shall prevail.

Your use of the Google Play store requires that you agree to the following terms. Please read them carefully. If you do not understand the Terms, or do not accept any part of them, then you should not use the Google Play store. Some products and features may be not available in all countries. Please see the Google Play Help Center for more information.

2. Provision of Google Play

Direct, Agency and App Sales. When you buy Content on Google Play you will buy it either:

(a) directly from Google (a “Direct Sale”);

(b) from the provider of the Content (the “Provider”), where Google is acting as an agent for the Provider (an “Agency Sale”); or

(c) in the case of Android apps, from the Provider of the app (an “App Sale”).

Each time that you purchase Content, you enter into a separate sale contract:

(d) based on the Terms (as applicable) with Google (in the case of a Direct Sale);

(e) based on the Terms (as applicable) with the Provider of the Content you have purchased (in the case of Agency Sales); or

(f) with the Provider of the Content you have purchased (in the case of App Sales).

The separate sale contract in (e) or (f) above (as applicable) is in addition to your contract with Google Inc. for the use of the Service (i.e. these Google Play Terms of Service).

For Agency Sales the statement, in the Google ToS, that the Google ToS “do not create any third party beneficiary rights”, does not apply to your use of the Service.

Access to Content. You may use Google Play to browse, locate, view, and/or download Content for your mobile, computer or other supported device (“Device”). The availability of Content will vary between countries and not all Content may be available in your country. Not all Content is available for sharing with family members. Some of this Content may be offered by Google while others may be made available by third-parties not affiliated with Google. Google is not responsible for any Content made available through Google Play that originates from a source other than Google and does not endorse such content.

3. Your Use of Google Play

Age Restrictions. In order to use Google Play you must have a valid Google account, subject to the following age restrictions. In order to serve as the family manager of a family group on Google Play, you must be at least 18 years old. You must not access Google Play if you are a person who is either barred or otherwise legally prohibited from receiving or using the Service or any Content under the laws of the country in which you are resident or from which you access or use Google Play. You must comply with any additional age restrictions that might apply for the use of specific Content or features on Google Play.

Basic Use Requirements. To use the Service, you will need a Device that meets the system and compatibility requirements for the relevant Content, which may change from time to time, working Internet access, and compatible software. Your ability to use the Service and the performance of the Service may be affected by these factors. Such system requirements are your responsibility.

Third-Party Fees. You may incur access or data fees from third parties (such as your Internet provider or mobile carrier) in connection with your use and viewing of Content and Google Play. For instance, you may incur such fees if you use services provided through Google Play on or through third-party services or devices. You are responsible for all such fees.

Updates. You may need to install updates to Google Play or related Google software that we introduce from time to time to use Google Play and to access or download Content. Content originating from Google may communicate with Google servers from time to time to check for available updates to the Content and to the functionality of Google Play, such as bug fixes, patches, enhanced functions, missing plug-ins and new versions (collectively, "Updates"). Your use of the Content you have installed requires that you have agreed to receive such automatically requested Updates. If you do not agree to such automatically requested and received Updates then please do not use the Google Play store or install this Content.

Google may update any Google app or any app you have downloaded from Google Play to a new version of such app, irrespective of any update settings that you may have selected within the Google Play app or your Device, if Google determines that the update will fix a critical security vulnerability related to the app.

Information about You. In order to access certain services or Content on Google Play, you may be required to provide information about yourself such as your name, address, and billing details. The information we collect, including information obtained from third parties, is shared between Google and its group companies to operate the Service. Google’s privacy policies explain how we treat your personal data and protect your privacy when using Google Play. Any such information you provide to Google must always be accurate, correct and up to date. Google may need to provide your personal information, such as your name and email address, to Providers for the purposes of processing your transactions and/or provisioning Content to you. Google has agreed with Providers that they will use this information in accordance with their privacy policies.

If you are part of a family group on Google Play, your family members in the family group will be able to see certain information about you. If you are the family manager of a family group on Google Play, family members you invite to join the family group will see your name, photo, and e-mail address. If you join a family group as a family member, other family members will be able to see your name, photo, and e-mail address. Your family manager may also see your age, and will see a record of all purchases you make using the designated family payment method, including a description of the Content purchased. If Content is available for family sharing and you share it with your family group, then all family members will be able to access the Content and see that you purchased it. Family managers and family members must meet these additional requirements as well.

Unauthorised Access to Accounts. You must keep your user details secure and must not share them with anyone else. You must not collect or harvest any personal data of any user of Google Play or of any user of other Google Services via Google Play, including account names.

Disabled Accounts. If Google disables access to your account in accordance with the Terms (for example if you violate the Terms), you may be prevented from accessing Google Play, your account details or any files or other Content that is stored with your account. If you are the family manager of a family on Google Play and Google disables access to your account, your family members may lose access to family features requiring a family group, such as a family payment method, family subscriptions, or Content shared by family members. If you are a family member of a family on Google Play and Google disables your account, your family members will lose access to Content you have shared with them. Please see section 6 below for your rights where you are not able to download Content before your account is disabled.

Malware protection. To protect you against malicious third party software and other security issues, Google may receive information about your device’s network connections, the operating system, and third party apps. Google may warn you if it considers an app to be unsafe, or remove or block its installation on your Device if it is known to be harmful to devices, data or users. You can choose to disable these protections in the Google Settings on your Device (however, apps installed through the Store may continue to be analyzed for security issues).

Android Instant Apps. When you click on a link on your Device, Google Play may check if an applicable instant app exists and, if so, open the link within the instant app. Any code needed to run the portions of the instant app you access will be downloaded to your Device and kept on it temporarily. App details for an instant app can be found in the Google Play store. Android Instant Apps data and settings are synced to devices signed in with your Google account. You can choose to disable Android Instant Apps in the settings on your Device.

4. Purchases and Payments

Free Content. Google may allow you to download, view or use Content free of charge. Any terms and conditions that apply to purchased Content will apply to free Content, except with respect to payment-related matters (for example, the refund-related provisions of these terms do not apply to such free Content). Google may impose limitations on your access and use of certain free Content.

Purchase of Content. Your contract for the purchase and use of Content is completed once you receive the email from Google confirming your purchase of that Content, and performance of this contract begins as soon as the purchase is complete. If you are the family manager of a family group on Google Play, you will be required to set up a valid family payment method for your family members to use to purchase Content on Google Play and within apps. You will be responsible for all of your family members’ purchases of Content using the family payment method. If a family group is deleted, or a family member leaves the family group, you may be charged for pending purchases made by family members using the family payment method.

Google Payments. In order to purchase Content through Google Play, you must agree to the payment terms as specified in the Google Payments Terms of Service. If you do not have a Google Payment account, you can set one up by going to this link, where you can also find more information about Google Payments. The Payments Terms of Service and Privacy Notice also apply whenever you want to purchase Content using a Google Payments account. Please ensure that you read those terms carefully before making any purchase. Some purchases through Google Play will require you to transact with the product Provider directly. In these cases, to process your transaction and maintain your account, we may share your personal information with the product Provider, as permitted under the Payments Privacy Notice.

Other Payment Processing Methods. Google may make available to you various payment processing methods in addition to Google Payments account to facilitate the purchase of Content through Google Play. You must abide by any relevant terms and conditions or other legal agreement, whether with Google or a third party, that governs your use of a given payment processing method. Google may add or remove payment processing methods at its sole discretion and without notice to you. Once your purchase is complete, Google or Google’s payment processor may charge your credit card or other form of payment that you indicate for any Content ordered, along with any additional applicable amounts (including any taxes). You are solely responsible for all amounts payable associated with purchases you make on Google Play.

Eligibility for Carrier Billing. In order to determine your eligibility to have purchases of Content that you make through your mobile Devices billed to your mobile network provider’s account, when you create a Google Play account on a Device we will send identifiers of your Device, subscriber ID and SIM card serial number to your network provider. To permit this you will need to accept the network provider’s terms of service. The network provider may send us your billing address information to help us create your Google Play account. We will hold and use this information in accordance with Google’s Privacy Policies.

Pricing. Pricing and availability of all Content displayed through Google Play are subject to change at any time before you click the button indicating that you want to purchase Content.

Taxes. You are responsible for any Taxes, and must pay for Content without any reduction for Taxes. If the seller of Content is obligated to collect or pay Taxes, the Taxes will be charged to you. "Taxes" means any duties, customs fees, or taxes (other than income tax) associated with the sale of Content, including any related penalties or interest.

Compliance with Tax Laws. You must comply with any and all applicable tax laws, including the reporting and payment of any taxes arising in connection with your use of Google Play or the purchase of Content through Google Play. The reporting and payment of any such applicable taxes are your responsibility.

All Sales Final. Except as expressly set out in the Terms or Google’s refund policies displayed in the Service, all sales are final, and no returns, replacements or refunds are permitted. If a replacement, return or refund is granted for any transaction, the transaction may be reversed, and you may no longer be able to access the Content that you acquired through that transaction. Your rights to withdraw, cancel or return purchases and get a refund are set out in the additional terms for the relevant Content type set out below and the refund policies displayed in the Service.

Pre-orders.

(a) When you place a pre-order for a Content, your contract for the purchase and use of that item is completed when the Content becomes available in your account and you will be charged for the purchase at that time. You can cancel your pre-order at any time up to the point at which the Content becomes available to you (if you want to cancel the pre-order you will be able to do so by visiting the “My Orders” page and following the instructions there).

(b) After the moment when the Content becomes available to you, you will not able to withdraw or cancel the pre-order and your cancellation and return rights are the same as for other Content that you purchase through Google Play. Please see the terms below for more information.

(c) We will need to cancel your pre-order if the Content is withdrawn from sale through Google Play before it is made available and we reserve the right to cancel your order in the event the price changes before your order is fulfilled.

5. Subscriptions

Trials of Magazines News Content and Music. Subscribing to a free trial for a magazine or news content on Google Play Newsstand or for music (including as part of your purchase of a subscription for a magazine or music) gives you access to the subscription benefits for that magazine for free for a specified trial period. At the end of such trial period, you will be charged the price of the first period of the subscription and will continue to be charged until you cancel your subscription. To avoid being charged, you must cancel before the end of the trial period. If you cancel during the trial period you will retain access to the magazine issues that you access during a free trial period, but you will not retain access to news content or Music Subscription Content (as defined below) that you access during a free trial period unless you become a paid subscriber. Access to free trials may be limited to a certain number of free trials for each user during a given period. To avoid any charges, you must cancel before the end of the trial period; for more information on cancelling subscriptions, see the section titled ”Cancellations” below in this section 5.

Trials of Apps. Subscribing to a trial for an Android app gives you access to the subscription benefits for that app for free for a duration specified by the application developer. At the end of the trial period, you will be charged the price of the first period of the subscription and will continue to be charged until you cancel your subscription. To avoid being charged, you must cancel before the end of the trial period. Once you cancel your trial, you will immediately lose access to the relevant app and any subscription privileges.

Cancellations. If you purchase an auto-recurring periodic subscription (whether monthly, annual or another period) to Content, you may cancel that subscription at any time before the end of the applicable billing cycle, and the cancellation will apply to the next period. For example, if you purchase a monthly subscription, you may cancel that subscription at any time during any month of the subscription, and the subscription will be cancelled as of the following month. You will not receive a refund for the current billing period, except in the event of defective Content (as set out in section 6 below), or as otherwise set out out in these Terms. With respect to magazine or news content subscriptions on Google Play Newsstand, you will continue to receive Content and updates (if applicable) of the relevant subscription during the remainder of the current billing period. After that billing period ends, your access to previously delivered magazine issues will not be affected by the cancellation, but your access to paid news content will terminate at the end of the billing period during which your subscription is cancelled. With respect to music subscriptions, you will continue to have access to Music Subscription Content (as defined in Section 7 below) during the remainder of the current billing period; however, your access to Music Subscription Content will terminate at the end of the billing period during which your subscription is cancelled. Additional refund policies for music and periodicals are set out in sections 7 and 10 below, respectively.

Price Changes. When you purchase a subscription, you will initially be charged at the rate applicable at the time of your agreement to subscribe. If the price of the subscription increases later, Google will notify you. The increase will apply to the next payment due from you after the notice, provided that you have been given at least 10 days' prior notice before the charge is made. If you are given less than 10 days' prior notice, the price increase will not apply until the payment after the next payment due.

Declining Price Changes. If you do not wish to pay the increased price for a subscription, you may cancel the subscription in the manner described in the Google Play help center and you will not be charged further amounts for the subscription, provided you have notified us before the end of the current billing period. In some cases where the Provider increases the price of a subscription Google may cancel your subscription unless you agree to re-subscribe at the new price. If your subscription is cancelled and you later decide to re-subscribe, you will initially be charged at the then current subscription rate.

6. Rights and Restrictions

License to Use Content. Following payment of the applicable fees for Content, you will have the non-exclusive right, for the period selected by you in the case of a purchase for a rental period, and in other cases for as long as Google and the applicable copyright holder have rights to provide you that Content, to download, use or stream, in each case, solely as expressly permitted by Google and subject to the restrictions set out in the Terms and associated policies, copies of the applicable Content to your Devices, and to view, use, and display the Content on your Devices or as otherwise authorized by Google as part of the Service for your personal, non-commercial use only. All rights, title and interest in Google Play and Content not expressly granted to you in the Terms are reserved by Google and its licensors.

Violation of License Terms. If you violate any of the terms and conditions of the Terms, your rights under this license will immediately terminate and Google may terminate your access to Google Play, the Content and/or your Google account without refund to you.

No Public Performance. You must not display (in part or in whole) the Content as part of any public performance or display even if no fee is charged (except where such use would not constitute a copyright infringement or violate any other applicable right). Use of a tool or feature provided as an authorized part of Google Play (for example, “Social Recommendations”, as defined in the Music terms below) is permitted, provided that as you use the tool or feature as specifically permitted and only in the exact manner specified and enabled by Google.

Sale, Distribution or Assignment to Third Parties. You may not sell, rent, lease, redistribute, broadcast, transmit, communicate, modify, sublicense or transfer or assign any Content or your rights to Content to any third party without authorization, including with regard to any downloads of Content that you may obtain through Google Play. Use of any tool or feature provided as an authorized part of Google Play (for example, “Social Recommendations”) shall not violate this provision so long as you use the tool as specifically permitted and only in the exact manner specified and enabled by Google.

Capturing of Streams. You may not use Google Play or any Content in conjunction with any stream-ripping, stream capture or similar software to record or create a copy of any Content that is presented to you in streaming format.

Sharing. You may not use Content as part of any service for sharing, lending or multi-person use, or for the purpose of any other institution, except as specifically permitted and only in the exact manner specified and enabled by Google (for example, through “Social Recommendations”).

Security Features. You may not attempt to, nor assist, authorise or encourage others to circumvent, disable or defeat any of the security features or components, such as digital rights management software or encryption, that protect, obfuscate or otherwise restrict access to any Content or Google Play. If you violate any security feature, you may incur civil or criminal liability.

Proprietary Notices. You may not remove any watermarks, labels or other legal or proprietary notices included in any Content, and you may not attempt to modify any Content obtained through Google Play, including any modification for the purpose of disguising or changing any indications of the ownership or source of Content.

Use of Android Apps. You must use apps from Google Play in accordance with the Google Play Business and Program Policies which are in place from time to time, the current version of which can be found at https://play.google.com/about/android-developer-policies.html

Defective Content. Once Content is available to you through your account, you should check the Content as soon as reasonably possible to ensure that it functions and performs as stated, and notify us as soon as reasonably possible if you find any errors or defect. In the case of Android apps, you should contact the developer concerning any defects or performance issues in the apps, as described in the Google Play help center. In the case of Content other than apps, subject to any limitations in the additional terms for the specific Content below, you may cancel purchases you have made from Google Play to Google if Google Play does not perform as stated with respect to that purchased Content, and Google will provide either a replacement Content (if available) or a refund of the purchase price.

If Google provides you a refund, the refund of your purchase price shall be your sole remedy.

If Google issues a refund or credit, it is under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future.

In the case of subscription purchases, Google may grant a refund for the entire term or a partial refund for issues not received in the remaining term of subscription.

Removal or Unavailability of Content. Subject to the Terms, Content that you purchase will be available to you through Google Play for the period selected by you, in the case of a purchase for a rental period, and in other cases as long as Google has the right to make such content available to you. In certain cases (for example, if Google loses the relevant rights, discontinues a service or Content is discontinued, breaches applicable terms or the law), Google may remove from your Device or cease providing you with access to certain Content that you have purchased. Google will provide you with reasonable prior notice of any such removal or cessation. If you are not able to download a copy of the Content before such removal or cessation, then Google will offer you either (a) a replacement of the Content if possible or (b) a refund of the price of the Content. If Google issues you a refund, the refund of your purchase price shall be your sole remedy.

Effect of Refunds. If a refund of the purchase price of Content for any reason is issued to you, you will no longer have the right to access the relevant Content.

Select, Copy and Paste. Select, copy and paste functions may be available for some text-based Content, and you must use these features within the prescribed limits and only for personal non-commercial purposes.

Multiple Accounts. If you have multiple Google accounts with different user names, in some cases you may transfer Content out of an account and into another account, provided you are the owner of each such account and provided Google has enabled a feature of the relevant service allowing such transfers.

Limits on access on Devices. Google may from time to time place limits on the number of Devices and/or software applications you may use to access Content (for more information, please visit the Help link for the relevant Content within Google Play). Google may record and store the unique device identifier numbers of your Devices in order to enforce such limits.

Dangerous Activities. None of the Services or Content are intended for use in the operation of nuclear facilities, life support systems, emergency communications, aircraft navigation or communication systems, air traffic control systems, or any other such activities in which case the failure of the Services or Content could lead to death, personal injury, or severe physical or environmental damage.

Changes to these Terms.

If the Terms change, you will be asked to accept new terms before you next purchase Content. Once you have accepted the new terms, they will apply to your use of all Content (including Content you have purchased in the past) and all subsequent purchases, until we notify you of further changes.

If you refuse to accept the updated terms then you will not be able to buy any further Content through Google Play, and the latest version of the Terms that you accepted will continue to apply to your use of Content. In this case we will, if we are able to do so, give you a reasonable period of time in which to download a copy of any Content you have previously bought from Google Play to your Device, and you may continue to view that copy of the Content on your Devices in accordance with the last version of the Terms that you accepted.

After that time has expired, you will not be given a further opportunity to download the Content you have previously bought and it is possible that you will no longer be able to use Google Play to access or use the Content you have already bought or related support services. If this happens, Google will offer you either a replacement of the Content, or a refund of the price of the Content, which will be your sole remedy. To access or use the Content you have already bought or related support services, you may also need to create a new account.

7. Music on Google Play

Introduction. Google Play includes certain music-related products and services, which are described in greater detail below and defined as “Music Products”, “Music Subscription Content” and “Music Locker Services”.

Music Products; Music Subscription Content. The Google Play store allows you to browse, preview, stream, purchase, download, recommend and use a variety of digital music and music-related content such as music files, music video files, previews, clips, artist information, user reviews, professional third-party music reviews and other digital content (“Music Products”). Certain Music Products may be accessible to you by purchasing (or receiving a free trial of) a subscription to a music subscription service made available via Google Play (“Music Subscription Content”). Music Products may be owned by Google or its third-party partners and licensors and may contain watermarks or other embedded data. For clarity, all Music Products constitute “Content” as defined in Section 1 above.

Stored Content. You can use Google Play to store digital content (such as music files, related metadata and album art) in Music Storage through the Music Software, as each is defined below (“Stored Content”). For the avoidance of doubt, “Music Products” do not include Stored Content. Stored Content may include both files that you upload directly to Music Storage and/or files that Google “scans and matches” to files stored locally on your Device.

Music Locker Services. Google Play may provide you with access to (a) server space that you can use to store music and associated data files, including Music Products and Stored Content (“Music Storage”) and/or (b) software applications (including web, desktop and mobile applications) and related services that allow you to upload, manage, access and play music through Music Storage ("Music Software"). Music Storage and Music Software are collectively referred to in these Terms as the “Music Locker Service”. For clarity, you may be given access to Stored Content and Music Subscription Content through the same user interface.

Use of Music Locker Services. By storing Music Products and Stored Content in Music Storage, you are storing a unique copy of such content and requesting Google to retain it on your behalf and to make it accessible to you through your Google account. By using the Music Locker Services, you are requesting that Google make all of the necessary functions and features of the Music Locker Services available to you in order to facilitate your use of Music Products and Stored Content. Additionally, by accessing or using Music Products and Stored Content through the Music Software, you are initiating and performing the corresponding functions on Google's servers, together with any related steps necessary to achieve them, through the Music Locker Services. You understand that Google, in performing the required technical steps at your direction to provide you with the Music Locker Services, may (a) transmit Music Products and Stored Content over various networks and in various media and (b) make such changes to Music Products and Stored Content as are necessary to conform and adapt it to the technical requirements of connecting networks, devices, services or media. You confirm and warrant to Google that you have the necessary rights to store in Music Storage any Stored Content that you direct Google to upload or store in Music Storage, and to instruct Google to perform the actions described in this section.

Cancelling a Music Purchase; Refunds. You have the right to cancel each purchase of a Music Product from Google (including a music subscription) for a refund within 7 working days of the day after that Music Product becomes available for you to download or stream, provided that, with respect to music subscription free trials: (i) you may cancel your subscription at any time during a free trial period (as set out in section 5 above) and (ii) you will not have the foregoing 7-day cancellation right once the paid portion of your subscription has commenced. Once you download or stream any Music Product that you purchase, you no longer have the right to cancel your purchase of that Music Product (unless the Music Product is defective). If Google grants to you a refund for a music subscription, the refund amount will be pro-rated to reflect remaining term of the subscription. Following Google’s provision of a refund to you, you will no longer have the right to access the applicable Music Product.

Other Google Subscription Services. You may receive access to a Google Play music subscription as part of a subscription to another Google product; additionally, you may receive access to other Google subscription products as part of a Google Play music subscription. The details of your access to such other Google subscription products will be presented to you before you complete your music subscription purchase. Your use of Google Play and any Google Play music subscription product is governed solely by these Terms, and not the terms of any other Google product, including any other Google product through which you receive access to a Google Play music subscription.

Social Recommendations. When you purchase Music Products, you may be given the opportunity to share all or a portion of the Music Products to your profile on Google+ or other Google-approved social networks or online destinations, as determined by Google in its sole discretion ("Social Recommendation"). Your use of Social Recommendations shall be subject to the Terms and any other terms and conditions applicable to the social networks or online destinations to which you share such Social Recommendations. Google may impose limitations on your Social Recommendations. For example, Google may render the Music Product associated with any Social Recommendation as a limited-length preview rather than a full-length play.

Rights to Stored Content. You retain any rights that you already hold in Stored Content. For the avoidance of doubt, Stored Content is not subject to the license grant to Google in the section of the Google Terms of Service titled “Your Content in our Services.”

Geographic Restrictions. The Music Locker Services and Music Products are currently available only in some countries. You agree that you will not present any false, inaccurate or misleading information in an effort to misrepresent yourself as a resident of a supported country, and you will not attempt to circumvent any restrictions on access to or availability of the Music Locker Services or Music Products.

Compliance With Settings. You must observe and comply with any settings or parameters set by Google or a copyright holder in connection with Music Products. For example, Google or the copyright holders may correct errors in Music Products, add additional features or change the security features or regional availability of the Music Products. Where these changes are made, the Music Products may automatically update.

Third-Party Provisions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Terms, the third parties who license their musical or other content to Google as Music Products or for other use in connection with the Google Play store (including Providers in the case of Agency Sales) are intended third party beneficiaries under these Terms solely with respect to the specific provisions of these Terms that directly concern their content (“Third-Party Provisions”), and solely for the purpose of enabling such third parties to enforce their rights in such content. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in these Terms confers a third-party beneficiary right upon any party, with respect to any provision that falls outside the Third Party Provisions, which includes but is not limited to any provisions or agreements incorporated by reference, or that may be referenced without incorporation, in these Terms.

Third-Party Software and Data. Information regarding third-party software (including open source) and data in the Music Locker Services can be obtained at the following location: https://music.google.com/about/thirdparty.html.

Licensing Partners. If you are interested in learning more about some of the partners we work with to bring you music on Google Play, please visit this page.

8. Books on Google Play

Privacy Policy for Books. The Google Play Privacy Policy for Books describes how we treat personal and certain other information generated by your use of Content that is books (“Books Content”).

Device Requirements. For information on the system requirements including what Devices are compatible with the Service and the purchase of and access to Books Content, please look at https://support.google.com/mobile/?p=books_devices.

Updates to Books Content. Google or the copyright holders of Books Content may update such Books Content and change digital rights settings for such Books Content from time to time. For example Google or the copyright holders may correct errors in the Books Content or may add additional features, or may change the security features for the Books Content. Where these changes are made the Books Content that you see will automatically update, except where you have downloaded a copy of the Books Content to a Device.

Cancellation. In addition to your rights to cancel if you have defective Content, as set out in section 6, you have the right to cancel the contract for each purchase or rental of a Book Content from Google for a refund within a period of 7 working days beginning with the day after that Book Content becomes available for you to read, except for rentals of Books Content for a 24-hour period, to which the cancellation right does not apply. Following Google’s provision of a refund to you, the transaction will be reversed, and you will no longer have the right to access the applicable Book Content.

Additional Restrictions. The sale of Books does not provide any promotional use rights in any Book.

9. Movies and TV Shows on Google Play

Introduction. Google Play includes certain video services, which are defined as the “Video Services”. In the Terms, Content made available for purchase through the Video Services are “Video Content”.

Cancellation. You can cancel your purchase of unwatched Video Content and get a refund of the purchase price within 7 working days of your purchase. Requests for refunds for any other reason must be directed through the form in the Google Play Help Center. Google reserves the right to approve or deny refund requests after 7 working days at its sole discretion.

Purchase Options. When you order Video Content through the Service, you may either (i) rent the Video Content for viewing an unlimited number of times during the period of time specified on the transaction page displayed at the time of your payment ("Viewing Period") and noted in your confirmation email (“Rental Video Content”) or (ii) where available, purchase the Video Content for storage in a digital locker and for viewing and unlimited number of times as long as the Video Content is available in the digital locker (“Locker Video Content”).

Viewing Periods - Rentals. Pausing, stopping, or rewinding a Rental Video Content will not extend your applicable Viewing Period for that Rental Video Content. Each item of Rental Video Content may have a different Viewing Period and the Viewing Period will be shown to you before you order it.

Viewing Periods - Purchases. Each Locker Video Content will be available for unlimited viewing for as long as Google is able to maintain the rights to continue providing you that Locker Video Content (“Locker Period”). Pausing, stopping, or rewinding an item of Locker Video Content will not extend the Locker Period. Each item of Locker Pay Content may have a different Locker Period.

Viewing requirements. You agree to watch each Video Content only within territories within which Google makes the relevant Video Content available for viewing. You may view Video Content when (1) online, with an internet connection and logged onto your Google account or (2) offline and viewing from a previously authorized device. You must be online to authorize a device for viewing Video Content.

Device Limits - Rentals. For each purchased Rental Video Content, you may watch such Rental Video Content on only one Device at a time (either online or on an authorized offline Device).

Viewing Limits - Purchases. For Locker Video Content, (1) you may view only one stream of each Locker Video Content at a time, (2) you may view up to 3 streams of Locker Video Content from your locker at a time, (3) you may authorize up to 5 Devices for offline playback of Locker Video Content at a time and to authorize additional devices, you must de-authorize one of those 5 Devices, (4) you may only authorize the same Device three times in any 12 month period and de-authorize the same Device twice in any 12 month period, (5) you may only de-authorize a total of 2 Devices for offline playback every 90 days, and (6) you may authorize no more than 3 Google accounts on the same Device.

10. Periodicals on Google Play Newsstand

This section applies to sales of periodicals (magazines and news content) on Google Play Newsstand, and not to periodical content provided within other Android apps.

Reductions for Print Subscribers. Some Providers of periodicals may allow you to purchase a subscription of periodical Content on Google Play at a reduced rate if you are already a print subscriber. If you cancel your print subscription of that periodical or your print subscription expires and you do not renew it, your reduced rate subscription of that Content on Google Play will be cancelled automatically.

Refunds. Where you are granted a refund, Google may issue a refund for the entire term or grant a partial refund for Content not received in the remaining term of a subscription. Following Google’s provision of a refund to you, you will no longer have the right to access the applicable issues of the relevant periodical Content delivered during the refunded period, or if a partial refund is given, any Content of the relevant periodical not yet received. If periodical Content is no longer available on Google Play (for example, if a title goes out of business or is sold to another publisher that does not provide periodicals on Google Play), Google will give you a refund (which may be a full refund for the current period of the subscription or a partial refund for Content not yet received in the current period).

Information Google Shares with Periodical Publishers. If you purchase a periodical subscription of any length on Google Play, Google may share your name, email address, mailing address and a unique identifier with the periodical’s publisher. As a subscriber to the periodical, Google may also share your reading history within the periodical with the publisher of that periodical. Google has agreed with the periodical publisher that the periodical publisher will use this information in accordance with the publisher’s privacy policy. You will be provided the opportunity to opt out of any communications from the publisher that do not relate to the subscription you are purchasing, and to opt out of marketing communications from third parties, at the time you purchase your subscription. If you purchase a single issue of a magazine on Google Play, Google may provide your postal code to the magazine’s publisher. We also provide periodical publishers with sales information on periodical purchases.

Verifying Print Subscriptions. If you are accessing a subscription on Google Play Newsstand through an existing print subscription from that periodical’s publisher, we may ask a third party service provider to verify your print subscription with the periodical publisher, and we may ask you for certain information relating to your print subscription in order to do so. Google will use this information in accordance with the Google Privacy Policy.

Cancellation. In addition to your rights to cancel if you have defective Content, as set out in section 6, please see section 5 for your right of cancellation in relation to periodical subscriptions.