Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Lightly grease a medium glass baking dish.
Place the chicken breasts in the prepared baking dish, and season with paprika, seasoned salt, and pepper. Arrange the pineapple, orange, lemon, and red bell pepper around the chicken, reserving a few slices of each for serving.
Bake chicken uncovered 20 minutes in the preheated oven. Turn, season again with paprika, seasoned salt, and pepper, and continue baking 10 minutes, or until chicken juices run clear.
While chicken is baking, prepare the Spanish rice according to package directions and heat the undiluted black bean soup in a pot over medium heat. Serve each chicken breast and some of the cooked fruit and red bell pepper over equal portions of the Spanish rice, and topped with a few spoonfuls black bean soup. Arrange the reserved uncooked fruit and pepper slices around the rice.

Combine tomatoes, green bell pepper, onion, and celery in a large skillet over medium heat; cook and stir until fragrant, about 10 minutes. Reduce heat and cook until green bell pepper and onion are soft, about 5 minutes more. Stir in sugar, salt, oregano, basil, and pepper.
Whisk water and cornstarch together in a small bowl. Stir into the skillet. Simmer tomato mixture until thickened, about 5 minutes.

Set oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source and preheat the oven's broiler. Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil; add Hatch chile peppers.
Cook under the preheated broiler until the skin of the peppers has blackened and blistered, 5 to 8 minutes. Place blackened peppers into a bowl and tightly seal with plastic wrap. Allow peppers to steam as they cool, about 20 minutes. Remove and discard skins.
Blend roasted Hatch chile peppers, diced tomatoes, diced tomatoes with roasted garlic, onion, cilantro, and garlic powder in a food processor or blender until desired consistency is reached.

A casserole dish of seasonal vegetables that is so easy to prepare. It can be made a day ahead - just reheat before serving. Lemon juice can be substituted for balsamic vinegar, and you can use baking potatoes if you don't have any Yukon Golds on hand.

